Life is hard. The environment is full of dangers and it is constantly changing. Yet it is full of living organisms which successfully inhabit this planet for billions of years. Each individual living being is a survival expert in their particular domain. For example, the arctic rabbit is a survival expert in the domain of northern Canada. With a little bit of imagination, we can consider each individual arctic rabbit to be nature's solution to the mathematical problem of constructing a living machine capable of surviving in the arctic. Looking at how successful nature is in creating complicated solutions such as the arctic rabbit, humans tried to imitate evolution to solve mathematical problems.

Evolution works on two levels, the genetic level, and the environmental level. On each level, there are two fundamental concepts: mating and survival of the fittest at the environmental level, and crossover and mutation on the genetic level.

In a population of rabbits, there is always competition for mating. Female rabbits prefer partners, whom they consider strong and fit. One way the female rabbits possibly do this is by looking at the white fluffy tails for signs of diarrhea.1 Rabbits with better genes, who have stronger immunity systems, have a smaller chance to contract diarrhea, and hence a higher chance to be chosen by the females for mating. Therefore ''better genes'' have a higher chance to proliferate.

When rabbits mate, their DNA is recombined using crossover to create the DNA of a brand new rabbit. The baby rabbit gets some proportion of his genetic code from his father and some from his mother. This way, he may inherit some good or bad traits from his parents. In addition, his DNA is altered a little by random errors in the DNA replication process. The introduction of these errors is called mutation. However, in this article I want to concentrate mainly on crossover.

Once a baby rabbit is born, he has to prove himself, by surviving in the harsh environment. If the offspring rabbit inherited bad genes from his parents, he will have a smaller chance of surviving until maturity and a smaller chance to reproduce and pass these bad genes on. On the other hand, if he inherited good genes, he has a higher chance to have many children himself, and to proliferate his genes further.

Now let us look at how we can use the ideas of evolution in the task of finding the best round trip through the 33 cities. First of all, we need DNA. That is, we need some concise way on how to encode a solution to the road trip problem. One possible way is to give each city a number like this:
